("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(grunting)
- [Narrator] When the
wild beast match was over,
Mattis prevailed as chief
of both robber clans.
Borka then found out
that his son Birk,
like Ronja, had not intention
of ever becoming a robber.
The two chieftains
decided that they at least
would continue to enjoy
their splendid robber's life.
(classical music)
- Old people have
no business freezing
themselves at wild
beast's matches.
I did tell you not to go.
- And I ignored you
because it's boring here.
They were doing
all the fighting.
All I did was sit there.
- Anyway, it's time you
used those big ears of yours
to listen to how I'm getting
with my new robber life.
Borka's doing a good job.
He isn't too loud mouthed.
In fact, he has
his wits about him,
enough to please me, and
you know how hard that is.
So now the two of
us work together.
Which means we bring
back double the loot.
We've been fooling
all the sheriff's men.
(laughs) It's a joy to see.
And soon, Mattis's
forest with be
free of all those
pesky soldiers.
- Always save the bragging for
when you're riding back home.
- But you are home
and going nowhere.
- Noddle-Pete.
Tada!
Take this on yourself,
it'll tide the chill away.
Oh, my dear, you look finer
than the count himself.
(laughing)
- Hey, you're
looking snug there.
It's not often that
you find yourself-
(horn blowing)
- Put that thing down.
(laughing)
- The best find of the day.
- [Lovis] All of you better
tidy the place up before dinner.
- [Lill-Klippen] I'll blast you
straight into Hell's Gap.
(horn blowing)
- [Lovis] Give me that.
(laughing)
(upbeat music)
- [Mattis] Don't squeeze
so, ow, is that your knee?
- Oh, Mattis, you're so
kind to share my bed.
At last, I feel the
chill melting away.
You're body is as warm
as glowing embers.
Finally, I'll get a
good night's rest.
(upbeat classical music)
(rustling and groaning)
- Don't you ever
clean your toenails?
(screaming)
It's not as if you're a Rumphob
clinging to a bear's stomach.
(grunting and rustling)
Just a bit more space?
(groaning)
(laughing)
(upbeat classical music)
- There, look.
- So the earthworms and even the
snakes have gone underground.
- Not to mention
the goblin folk.
They've disappeared
somewhere too.
- Ah, the empty forests.
You never know when
it'll finally decide
to drag you down
under its leaves.
- What if I helped?
I'll wake up every small
bug sleeping in the earth,
and I'll drag them up myself,
I'll do whatever it takes.
- We're home.
(sneezing)
- [Man] Freezing, freezing.
- Chilled to the bone
with this all terrain.
- [Mattis] What's this, you
lecturing the two kids, old man?
- The little snake
and the little harpy.
Whatever the old man says,
he's preaching to deaf ears.
(laughing)
- Come on children,
what about us then?
I got far better stories
than the old man does.
All you have to do is ask.
- (laughs) Why would I ask about
smelly, dirty, devil robbers?
(laughing)
- Enough.
Go home back to
your nest, little snake.
I'm sure your own
father's waiting,
smelling just as bad as us.
(upbeat music)
- Ah yes, this is
how I wanted it.
Now I can happily wait.
- Old man, what're
you waiting for?
- Well, what do you think?
(fire crackling)
- I've never seen him like
this, just seems so tired.
I wonder what it is.
- It's his old age.
- Well he is old, but
he won't die will he?
- Yes, he will.
- What was that?
No, you can't say that, don't
say that, don't you dare.
(shouting)
- It's done, you
decide a lot of things.
But Mattis, you can't
decide on this, can you?
(sobbing)
(somber classical music)
(baby crying)
- Is he here?
Mattis.
Perfect name for a chieftain,
a robber chieftain.
(somber classical music)
- [Narrator] Time passed.
Noddle-pete grew
weaker and weaker.
- [Ronja] Noddle-Pete.
- [Narrator] He
spent most of his
days lying in bed,
his eyes closed.
(somber classical music)
(heavy breathing)
Now then, come on.
- He...
He...
He can't be gone.
- Hey, hey, keep it down.
Don't you think I
have enough manners
to say goodbye before
I leave this place?
(heavy breathing)
It's time.
Time.
My good, good friends,
I shall take leave of you all.
(gasping)
And now, farewell.
I shall die.
(crying)
(somber classical music)
- This man has always
been by my side.
And now he's not.
(screaming)
This man
has always
been here
and now
he's not.
(sobbing)
He's always been here,
but now...
...he's not.
- Mattis.
No one can always be there.
We all move on.
We're born and we
die, that's it,
it's always been like that.
What're you so upset about?
- I miss him.
I miss him.
I miss him so much,
it breaks my heart.
- I know you're hurting,
let me hold you.
(sobbing)
- You might as well,
you too Ronja, you too.
(sobbing)
(somber classical music)
(shouting and laughing)
Ronja, help me in my grief.
I need you here to comfort me.
- Spring's not far away, I can
almost tell, and you'll
feel better soon.
- Noddle-Pete, no, he
won't see spring again.
- [Narrator] Winter passed, and
spring came, as it always did.
(horses neighing
and goats bleating)
No matter who lived or died.
Mattis slowly began to cheer up.
- Away.
- [Narrator] As he
did every spring.
(goats bleating)
(upbeat music)
- I know what you mean, I
always thought I'd grow up
to be a robber, and then one day
I finally worked out
what it actually meant.
(laughing)
- Ah well, don't
forget, I took an oath.
I do wonder though,
without doing any robbing,
what're we gonna
live on, you and I?
(laughing)
- Don't worry, that's
easy, I think I know a way.
- Listen, when I
was young, I spent
my time in the
woods, just like you.
(screaming)
I happened on day to
save the life of a
little gray dwarf who was
being attacked by a harpy.
This little fellow
was ever so grateful.
He showed me a cave, and it was
filled to the brim
with shiny silver.
You will find this place,
but only when the time comes.
It's out there waiting, waiting
for you my little pride and joy.
- Yes, I'll find
it, I'm sure I will.
It's out there,
he told me, I know
it's not some sort
of fairy tale.
Noddle-Pete swore it was true.
Sometime soon, we should get
our horses and ride up there,
and have a look around, because
I think I know where it is.
- There's no hurry for that.
(upbeat music)
Anyway, let's try
and make sure we
keep it just between
us, a secret.
Just imagine all the robbers.
(laughs)
Trying to get their
hands on all that silver.
(laughing)
- I knew it, you're as
wise as Noddle-Pete.
That's exactly why I
didn't want to tell
this secret to
anyone else but you.
- Besides, we'll be alright.
We can get by without needing
any silver, right sister mine?
It's getting warmer,
we've plenty to do,
like gather things
for the bear's cave.
- [Ronja] If Mattis
hears that we're planning
to move there again, I
wonder what he'll say.
(murmuring)
- Oh, you again, after Ronja?
- Actually, you're the
one I'm here to see.
- I remember the
old bear's cave.
Yeah, oh when I
was your age I was
in and out of
there all the time.
It's a fine place,
no better place
to live at this time of year.
Don't you think so, Lovis?
- You can go, of course,
your father and I both agree.
It'll be quieter with you
both gone, you'll be missed.
(laughing)
- You'd better return together
before winter, and
I'm sure you will.
- Yes, we will, just like
we did last year, right?
- Also, that cave is really
mine, don't you forget it.
And every so often, from
time to time, I'll call in.
- You can come whenever.
Although, given all we've
been through, it'll be a
relief not to see your
black curly head every day,
so on second thought, I think
you should just stay away.
- Yes, I have to
agree with that.
(laughing)
- Off I go.
- Off I go, it's time.
- Off you go then.
(grunting)
("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has
cleared as day is dawning ♪
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
as I change with them ♪
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
and courage to know ♪
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
- [Masked Man] Here they come.
- [Mattis]
Good, let's go, yah.
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change,
I'll change with them ♪
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- I'm ready Birk, are you?
Don't be scared, here it
comes now, my spring yell.
(screaming)
("The Call of
Spring" instrumental)